\documentclass[preprint, 3p,
authoryear]{elsarticle} %review=doublespace preprint=single 5p=2 column
%%% Begin My package additions %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

\usepackage[hyphens]{url}

  \journal{An awesome journal} % Sets Journal name

\usepackage{lineno} % add

\usepackage{graphicx}
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% end my additions to header

\usepackage[T1]{fontenc}
\usepackage{lmodern}
\usepackage{amssymb,amsmath}
\usepackage{ifxetex,ifluatex}
\usepackage{fixltx2e} % provides \textsubscript
% use upquote if available, for straight quotes in verbatim environments
\IfFileExists{upquote.sty}{\usepackage{upquote}}{}
\ifnum 0\ifxetex 1\fi\ifluatex 1\fi=0 % if pdftex
  \usepackage[utf8]{inputenc}
\else % if luatex or xelatex
  \usepackage{fontspec}
  \ifxetex
    \usepackage{xltxtra,xunicode}
  \fi
  \defaultfontfeatures{Mapping=tex-text,Scale=MatchLowercase}
  \newcommand{\euro}{â‚¬}
\fi
% use microtype if available
\IfFileExists{microtype.sty}{\usepackage{microtype}}{}
\usepackage[]{natbib}
\bibliographystyle{plainnat}

\ifxetex
  \usepackage[setpagesize=false, % page size defined by xetex
              unicode=false, % unicode breaks when used with xetex
              xetex]{hyperref}
\else
  \usepackage[unicode=true]{hyperref}
\fi
\hypersetup{breaklinks=true,
            bookmarks=true,
            pdfauthor={},
            pdftitle={Construction of an IBD Classifier Using Machine Learning Methods},
            colorlinks=false,
            urlcolor=blue,
            linkcolor=magenta,
            pdfborder={0 0 0}}

\setcounter{secnumdepth}{5}
% Pandoc toggle for numbering sections (defaults to be off)


% tightlist command for lists without linebreak
\providecommand{\tightlist}{%
  \setlength{\itemsep}{0pt}\setlength{\parskip}{0pt}}



\usepackage{booktabs}
\usepackage{longtable}
\usepackage{array}
\usepackage{multirow}
\usepackage{wrapfig}
\usepackage{float}
\usepackage{colortbl}
\usepackage{pdflscape}
\usepackage{tabu}
\usepackage{threeparttable}
\usepackage{threeparttablex}
\usepackage[normalem]{ulem}
\usepackage{makecell}
\usepackage{xcolor}



\begin{document}


\begin{frontmatter}

  \title{Construction of an IBD Classifier Using Machine Learning
Methods}
    \author[Some Institute of Technology]{Peiyu Zhan}
  
      \cortext[cor1]{Corresponding author}
    \fntext[1]{*Code and data are available at:
https://github.com/peiyuzhan/sta304-final-paper}
  
  \begin{abstract}
  Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a group of intestinal disorders
  which can cause chronic and incurable inflammation of the digestive
  tract \citep{CDC}. Although IBD has no specific biomarker, it has been
  found that the genetic susceptibility plays a key role in the
  occurrence of IBD \citep{Loddo}. In this paper we propose to construct
  an IBD classifier based on a gene expression data set using machine
  learning methods. Several algorithms in machine learning have shown
  great success in performing the task of binary classification. The
  three methods considered in this paper include logistic regression,
  k-nearest neighbours, and decision tree. However, the small sample
  size makes it non-trivial to validate each model for choosing the top
  performer, and the large number of features makes it necessary to find
  proper regularization approaches. For the first concern, we applied
  split set approach and run 10 epochs for each model to compare their
  average performance in different evaluation measures. For the second
  concern, we implemented ridge regression and least absolute shrinkage
  and selection operator for the logistic model and pruning method for
  the decision tree. The results show that logistic regression with
  LASSO regularization is comparatively the best classifier, hence we
  trained it using the whole data set as the final classifier that can
  be used for future applications.
  \end{abstract}
    \begin{keyword}
    KNN \sep LASSO \sep Ridge \sep 
    Classification Tree
  \end{keyword}
  
 \end{frontmatter}

\hypertarget{introduction}{%
\section{Introduction}\label{introduction}}

Machine learning is the subject composed of computer science and
statistics that studies how to make algorithms learn patterns and
features from big data and improve their performance over time without
being explicitly programmed to do so \citep{IBM} (IBM Cloud Education).
Although the origin of machine learning can only date back to 1950s, it
has become one of the most popular research areas and the driving force
of many technologies such as stock prediction, face recognition,
language translation, and self-driving cars in the recent decades. After
years of vigorous development, many segments of machine learning have
grown up. Classification, which is the process of predicting the
categories (class) of given data points based on a set of features
(predictors), has been regarded as the most classical and representative
subsection of machine learning. A lot of particular algorithms have been
invented to perform the task of classification. Once people have a
datapoint whose class and several features are given, it can be fed to
the algorithms for exploring the patterns between the predictors and
classes. Such data points are called training examples. Each trained
algorithm could be regarded as a function \(f: X \rightarrow Y\), where
\(X\) is the set of all possible values of the predictors and \(Y\)
represents the collection of all categories. Every time the trained
algorithm is given a new datapoint with a set of features
\(\left(x_{1}, x_{2}, \ldots, x_{p}\right)\), it can generate a
predicted category \(y=f\left(x_{1}, x_{2}, \ldots, x_{p}\right)\).
Theoretically speaking, as more and more training examples are fed to
the algorithms, the predicted class has a greater chance of being equal
to the true class. These algorithms are playing a critical role in the
fields of medical science and public health. One representative
application is disease prediction.

Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), is a general term that describes a
group of disorders that can cause prolonged chronic inflammation in
human's digestive tract. IBD is usually classified into two types which
are ulcerative colitis and Cohn's disease. Patients with either type of
IBD have to suffer from symptoms including severe diarrhea, abdominal
pain, fatigue, bloody stools and unintended weight loss \citep{CDC}
(CDC, 2018). Approximately 1.5 million people have IBD in North America
where the number is among the highest in the world \citep{CDC} (CDC,
2020). Although IBD is not a rare disease, it is still incurable and
more importantly its specific cause still remains unknown. However, it
was recently mentioned by Genome-wide Association Studies (GWAS) that
genetic susceptibility is playing a crucial role in the occurrence of
IBD, which means genetic data can be potentially used to construct a
biomarker for IBD, which is not only useful for exploring better
treatments and customized patient care but also helpful for promoting
the development of clinical trials involving new medications (SSC,
2017). In addition, if an effective classifier can be constructed, we
will be able to identify the population with high incidence risk of IBD
so that some preventive actions such as lifestyle changes and
medications can be implemented ahead. The earlier the patients treat
them, the greater the chance they will live a longer and healthier life.
Therefore, the work is worth doing.

The objective of this paper contains two parts. First, we will assess
and compare the performance of three types of classifiers including
logistic regression with regularization, k-nearest neighbours, and
decision tree. Second, based the performance result, we will train a
model that can be used for classification of future observations.

The comparison of the three methods and their methodology will be 
discussed in the Model section. In Result section, we summarize the 
performance of each method and make the final decision. Finally in
the section 4, we discuss the limitations of this study and conclude 
the relationship between gene and IBD. Appendix will contain the boxplots 
that demonstrate the distributions of the performance of the methods 
we referred in the result section.

\hypertarget{methods}{%
\section{Methods}\label{methods}}

Our work will consist of four specific approaches supported by three
classification models:

\begin{table}[H]

\caption{\label{tab:unnamed-chunk-1}\label{tab1}Summary of the machine learning methods}
\centering
\begin{tabular}[t]{l}
\hline
Methods\\
\hline
Logistic Model Regularized by LASSO (Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator)\\
\hline
Logistic Model Regularized by RR (Ridge Regression)\\
\hline
KNN (K Nearest Neighbours)\\
\hline
Classification Tree Regularized by Pruning\\
\hline
\end{tabular}
\end{table}

The methodology of each approach is one-by-one explained in details in
the following sections.

\hypertarget{logistic-regression-with-regularization}{%
\section{Logistic Regression with
Regularization}\label{logistic-regression-with-regularization}}

As logistic regression is technically created to model categorical
response variables, it has been the most commonly used and well-studied
prediction method for classification . Let \(Y\) be the binary response
variable which takes values of 0 (for health individual) and 1(for IBD
patient), and \(X_{1}, X_{2}, \ldots, X_{p}\) be the predictors (age,
ethnicity, sex , and the quantified probe set levels). Then the
relationship between \(Y\) and \(X's\) is modelled by logistic
regression as :

\[
\log \left(\frac{P\left(Y=1 \mid X_{1}, \ldots, X_{p}\right)}{1-P\left(Y=1 \mid X_{1}, \ldots, X_{p}\right)}\right)=w_{0}+w_{1} X_{1}+\ldots+w_{p} X_{p}
\]

It is shown in the equation that this model does not directly classify
the response variable but instead it assigns each observation with a
probability of belonging to a class, given the values of the predictors.
This probability will act as a decision maker for classification. By
assuming the response variable \(Y\) follows a Bernoulli distribution
with parameter \(P(Y=1)\), we can derive the likelihood function of the
weights \(w_{0}, w_{1}, \ldots, w_{p}\):

\[
L\left(w_{0}, \ldots, w_{p}\right)=\prod_{i=1}^{N}\left(\frac{\exp \left(w_{0}+w_{1} x_{i 1}+\ldots+w_{p} x_{i p}\right)}{1+\exp \left(w_{0}+w_{1} x_{i 1}+\ldots+w_{p} x_{i p}\right)}\right)^{y_{i}}\left(1-\frac{\exp \left(w_{0}+w_{1} x_{i 1}+\ldots+w_{p} x_{i p}\right)}{1+\exp \left(w_{0}+w_{1} x_{i 1}+\ldots+w_{p} x_{i p}\right)}\right)^{1-y_{i}}
\]

The training purpose is to find weight estimates
\(\hat{w}_{0}, \hat{w}_{1}, \ldots, \hat{w}_{p}\) which can maximize the
log likelihood function. Although there is no closed form solution of
the estimates, many built-in functions in various programming languages
can help us to solve them numerically given any training data. Once we
obtain the estimates, we will be able to classify a new observation with
known feature values into a category based on the predicted
probabilities:

\[
\hat{P}\left(Y=1 \mid x_{1}, \ldots, x_{p}\right)=\frac{\exp \left(\hat{w}_{0}+\hat{w}_{1} x_{1}+\ldots+\hat{w}_{p} x_{p}\right)}{1+\exp \left(\hat{w}_{0}+\hat{w}_{1} x_{1}+\ldots+\hat{w}_{p} x_{p}\right)}
\]

\[
\hat{P}\left(Y=0 \mid x_{1}, \ldots, x_{p}\right)=1-\frac{\exp \left(\hat{w}_{0}+\hat{w}_{1} x_{1}+\ldots+\hat{w}_{p} x_{p}\right)}{1+\exp \left(\hat{w}_{0}+\hat{w}_{1} x_{1}+\ldots+\hat{w}_{p} x_{p}\right)}
\]

If \(\hat{P}\left(Y=1 \mid x_{1}, \ldots, x_{p}\right)>0.5\), we will
classify the new observation into the group of IBD patients
(i.e.~\(\hat{Y}=1\)). Otherwise, we will classify it as a healthy
individual.

However, the presence of a large number of predictors can introduce
noise in the model which can lead to undesirable overfitting and
non-ideal prediction performance. In our data the number of predictors
is 312 which is even two-times larger than the sample size (126),
therefore the concern of overflexibility needs to be taken into
consideration. One solution to this concern is regularization in which
the size of \(\hat{w}_{0}, \hat{w}_{1}, \ldots, \hat{w}_{p}\) are shrunk
by adding constraints or penalties in the process of maximizing the
likelihood function. We will focus on two regularization methods: LASSO
(Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator) and RR (Ridge
Regression). Note that the training purpose of logistic model is to find
weight estimates that maximize
\(\log L\left(w_{0}, \ldots, w_{p}\right)\) or equivalently minimize
\(-\log L\left(w_{0}, \ldots, w_{p}\right)\). Hence, the negative
likelihood function could be considered as a loss function. In both RR
and LASSO, an additional term, which is proportional to the weights'
size, is added to the loss function
\(-\log L\left(w_{0}, \ldots, w_{p}\right)\):

\[
R R:-\log \left(L\left(w_{0}, \ldots, w_{p}\right)\right)+\lambda \sum_{j=1}^{p} w_{j}^{2}
\] \[
L A S S O:-\log \left(L\left(w_{0}, \ldots, w_{p}\right)\right)+\lambda \sum_{j=1}^{p}\left|w_{j}\right|
\]

By using the updated loss functions, the loss value becomes proportional
to the size of the weight estimates, which means larger weights will
apply more penalty to the loss function. Thus the weights are controlled
from being too large to cause overfitting. In both equations, the
parameter \(\lambda\) is a positive number that controls the magnitude
of the penalty. As \(\lambda\) increases, we will have larger penalty,
smaller weight estimates, and less model flexibility. A smaller
\(\lambda\) implies larger flexibility but smaller training bias. The
choice of \(\lambda\) is important due to the bias-variance trade off.
We will use cross validation to find the optimal \(\lambda\) value in
the training process.

Since the penalty terms added to the loss function are different for RR
and LASSO, the two methods actually perform different forms of
regularization. Ridge regression shrinks the weights but does not
perform feature selection. However, LASSO works to select only a subset
of predictors by forcing some of the weights to become 0. RR usually
have better performance when most of the features are associated with
the response while LASSO performs better when only some are strong
predictors and the rest add noise. People often cannot know in advance
which one is better, hence we will train two logistic models that are
respectively regularized by RR and LASSO , and then compare their
prediction capability.

\hypertarget{k-nearest-neighbours}{%
\section{K-Nearest Neighbours}\label{k-nearest-neighbours}}

Although Logistic regression is a mature model for binary
classification, it still needs several statistical assumptions like that
the responses should identically and independently follow a Bernoulli
distribution. K-Nearest Neighbours is a sort of Bayes classifier that is
particularly designed to perform classification with no need of
assumption. This non-parametric model estimates the conditional
probabilities of belonging to a class by inspecting the classes of the
neighbours.

Since we started to talk about neighbours, it is necessary to introduce
the concept of distance in the feature space before explaining the
details of the algorithm. Given any two data points \(m_{1}\) and
\(m_{2}\) in the feature space, they can be represented by two sets of
predictor values:
\(m_{1}=\left\{X_{1}=s_{1}, X_{2}=s_{2}, \ldots, X_{p}=s_{p}\right\} \& m_{2}=\left\{X_{1}=t_{1}, X_{2}=t_{2}, \ldots, X_{p}=t_{p}\right\}\)\\
Then the distance between them is calculated using the Euclidean
distance formula:

\[
d\left(m_{1}, m_{2}\right)=d\left(\left(s_{1}, s_{2}, \ldots, s_{p}\right),\left(t_{1}, t_{2}, \ldots, t_{p}\right)\right)=\sqrt{\sum_{i=1}^{p}\left(s_{i}-t_{i}\right)^{2}}
\]

Given any new observation with features
\(\left\{X_{1}=x_{1}, X_{2}=x_{2}, \ldots, X_{p}=x_{p}\right\}\), we
will classify its corresponding \(Y\) as 0 (absence of IBD) or 1
(presence of IBD) based on a given training data set in the following
way. First, we select \(K\) data points from the training set which are
closet to the new observation in the feature space. We put these \(K\)
nearest data points in a set denoted by \(T\). Then we estimate the
conditional probability of each class using sample proportions in set
\(T\):

\[
\hat{P}\left(Y=0 \mid x_{1}, \ldots, x_{p}\right)=\frac{1}{K} \sum_{i \in T} I\left(y_{i}=0\right) ; \hat{P}\left(Y=1 \mid x_{1}, \ldots, x_{p}\right)=\frac{1}{K} \sum_{i \in T} I\left(y_{i}=1\right)
\]

Then we will assign Y with the class that has the highest estimated
conditional probability. This is called the majority vote rule. Although
the mechanism of KNN is simple, it usually does pretty well in utilizing
patterns and associations in the data. One critical point is how to
choose the optimal value of \(K\) since \(K\) determines the
bias-variance trade-off of the model. Small values of \(K\) may lead to
overfitting while large values of \(K\) may cause undesirable bias.
Hence finding an optimal \(K\) is the major training purpose in KNN. We
will obtain the optimal value of \(K\) using a resampling method called
leave-one-out which is actually one-fold cross validation.

\hypertarget{decision-tree}{%
\section{Decision Tree}\label{decision-tree}}

The last predictive model we will take into consideration is decision
trees in which the feature space is split in a recursive way using one
feature at a time. The approach's name comes from the segmentation of
the feature space which can be summarized and visualized by a tree-like
structure.

Once the model is fed with a set of observations, the data will be
partitioned in an iterative way using one predictor at a time. First,
the algorithm will decide one feature to be used for data partition. If
the chosen feature is categorical, the data will be simply split based
on the levels of the feature. If the chosen predictor is continuous, the
algorithm will determine a numeric threshold first and then partition
the data based on the threshold. After the initial partitioning
isfinished, each one of the two subdivided sets of data can be further
partitioned. This will be implemented again after selecting features and
thresholds for each one of the partitions. Therefore the resulted model
can have a tree-like structure. Each split in the tree is called a node,
and the terminal nodes are referred as leaves. Each leaf of the tree is
finally assigned with the class that has the highest proportion in that
node.

The criterion used by the algorithm to choose feature and threshold at
each time is called purity. This term describes how homogeneous the
subdivided data regions are in terms of having data from the same class
as much as possible. If we let \(m\) be a node with \(K\) split regions,
then the purity of node can be quantified through two mathematical
functions:

\[
\text { 1. Gini Index: } G=\sum_{k=1}^{K} \hat{p}_{m k}\left(1-\hat{p}_{m k}\right)
\]

\[
\text { 2. Cross-entropy: } D=-\sum_{k=1}^{K} \hat{p}_{m k} \log \left(\hat{p}_{m k}\right)
\]

In the above equations, \(\hat{p}_{mk}\) stands for the proportion of
data points with level \(k\). Both of these measures take values close
to 0 if \(\hat{p}_{mk}\) is either close to 0 or close to 1 which
represents a low level of homogeneity. The training objective is to
ensure the data regions created at each node to be homogeneous as much
as possible. The splitting will stop if no further split can improve the
purity.

Once we have a trained tree model and a new observation with known
feature values, the algorithm can take it down the tree and ends in one
of the leaves. The estimated class of the new data point will be the
class that has been assigned to the leaf where it ends at.

According to the mechanism introduced above, the complexity of a tree
model can be significantly related to the number of features. Hence the
large number of predictors in our case can lead to an over-complicated
model which can cause overfitting as well as non-ideal running time.
Therefore, once the tree is trained, we will prune it by eliminating
some of the terminal branches. Suppose \(T\) is a tree model, we can
calculate its corresponding loss value using the following loss function
\(LOSS(T)=N_{m}+\alpha|T|\): , where \(N_m\) represents the number of
misclassifications, \(|T|\) represents the number of leaves, and
\(\alpha\) is a complexity parameter that decides the magnitude of
penalty. Let \(T_{full}\) represent the fully developed tree and
\(S=\left\{T \subset T_{f u l l}\right\}\) be the set of all pruned
subtrees of \(T_{full}\). Then the chosen \(T_c\) should be the element
in \(S\) that gives the minimum \(LOSS(T)\). The working principle of
pruning is similar to the regularization of logistic model, thus it is
also necessary to find an optimal value of \(\alpha\) which can balance
between bias and variance. The optimal will be obtained using cross
validation like before.

\hypertarget{validation-method}{%
\section{Validation Method}\label{validation-method}}

We will assess and compare the performance of these classification
methods using split set approach. Each time we will randomly select 2/3
of the observations for training and use the rest 1/3 for validating.
Since there is randomness involved, we will respectively repeat the
process ten times for each model and record the performance in each
epoch. Finally we will compare the average performance for each model
over the ten epochs. There are multiple measures that can be used to
evaluate the classification performance. Our criterions will be the
following four quantities that can be derived from a confusion matrix:

\begin{table}[H]

\caption{\label{tab:unnamed-chunk-2}Criterions}
\centering
\begin{tabular}[t]{l}
\hline
Criterions\\
\hline
Sensitivity $=\frac{TP}{TP+FN}$\\
\addlinespace
Specificity $=\frac{TN}{TN+FP}$\\
\addlinespace
Accuracy $=\frac{TP+TN}{TP+TN+FP+FN}$\\
\addlinespace
F1 Score $=\frac{2TP}{2TP+FP+FN}$\\
\hline
\end{tabular}
\end{table}

\begin{table}[H]

\caption{\label{tab:unnamed-chunk-3}Confusion Matrix}
\centering
\begin{tabular}[t]{lcc}
\toprule
  & IBD & Non.IBD\\
\midrule
Predicted IBD $(\hat{Y}=1)$ & TP & FP\\
Predicted Non-IBD $(\hat{Y}=0)$ & FN & TN\\
\bottomrule
\end{tabular}
\end{table}

Since different measures have different practical meanings and good
performance on one measure does not imply good performance on the other
measures, we will assess and compare the classifiers' performance using
all of the four evaluation scores. The different application scenarios
of these four scores will be further discussed in the conclusion.

\hypertarget{results}{%
\section{Results}\label{results}}

After we repeatedly tested each model ten times using split set
approach, their average test sensitivity is summarized in the following
table:

\begin{table}[H]
\centering
\begin{tabular}{l|l|l|l|l}
\hline
Model & Sensitivity & Specificity & Accuracy & F1 Score\\
\hline
Ridge Regression & 0.617 & 0.969 & 0.836 & 0.57\\
\hline
LASSO & 0.877 & 0.931 & 0.907 & 0.771\\
\hline
KNN & 0.924 & 0.872 & 0.883 & 0.718\\
\hline
Tree & 0.664 & 0.787 & 0.757 & 0.451\\
\hline
\end{tabular}
\end{table}

The first thing to note is that each method is playing a role since all
the scores are greater than 0.5. Then it can be seen from the table that
logistic model with RR is the top performer on specificity, logistic
model with LASSO shows the best performance on both accuracy and F1
score, and KNN gets the highest score on sensitivity. Also, it is worth
noting that decision tree has the poorest overall performance. The
tree's score is always at the bottom except for specificity. The
following box plots in appendix further demonstrate the distributions of
the performance of the proposed methods among the 10 epochs for each
prediction score.

\begin{center}\includegraphics[width=0.7\linewidth]{hw_files/figure-latex/unnamed-chunk-6-1} \end{center}

It is indicated from the box plots that the top performer of each
measure also owns the most consistent distribution. For sensitivity, the
performance of KNN is the best as well as the most consistent among all
the methods. The median performance of KNN on sensitivity is 1, which
means that KNN produced perfect validation sensitivities half of the
time. For specificity, RR is the best performer with the most consistent
performance. Only two of the ten validation specificities of RR were
less than one. With respect to accuracy and F1 score, LASSO's
performance is the best and most consistent. Since the logistic model
with LASSO has been the winner on two of the four evaluation measures
and it has no obvious shortfalls on the other measures, we claim the
winner is logistic regression with LASSO regularization. Finally, we
trained a logistic model with LASSO regularization using the whole data
set as the ultimate classifier for future IBD classification.

\hypertarget{conclusion-discussion}{%
\section{Conclusion \& Discussion}\label{conclusion-discussion}}

We assessed and compared four classification models including logistic
regression with RR regularization, logistic regression with LASSO
regularization, K-nearest neighbours, and decision tree based on an IBD
diagnosis data set found on the SSC website. The classification
performance was respectively evaluated using four measures including
sensitivity, specificity, accuracy, and F1 score. The validation results
show that every classification model is instrumental, which mediately
confirms the relationship between gene and IBD. Besides that the tree
showed the poorest overall performance, the other methods all have their
own merits and demerits with respect to each measure. Finally, we
decided to train a logistic model with LASSO regularization using the
whole data set as the final classifier because it was the top performer
on both accuracy and F1 score without showing shortage on the rest of
the measures. Using this model, we will be capable of doing IBD
diagnosis or providing an estimated chance of getting IBD for future
observations.

There are some non-negligible limitations existing in our study. First,
the sample size is insufficient. In our case, although we have more than
one thousand predictors, the number of observations is only 126. As a
consequence, we do not have enough training data to tune each classifier
as effective as possible. Also, the small size of training data can
limit the performance of some models. For example, the tree model
becomes very complex when the number of features is too large due to its
mechanism. Therefore, the advantage of tree cannot be shown without
excessive training. This is why the tree model had the poorest
validation result. Second, the criterion of a good IBD classifier can
vary from situation to situation. For example, if we know that a false
negative costs much more than a false positive, we are supposed to use
the model whose sensitivity score is the highest. In that case we will
prefer KNN rather than logistic regression according to the validation
results.

\hypertarget{r-reference}{%
\section{R reference}\label{r-reference}}

Wickham H, Bryan J (2022). \emph{readxl: Read Excel Files}. R package
version 1.4.0, \url{https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=readxl}.

Friedman J, Hastie T, Tibshirani R (2010). ``Regularization Paths for
Generalized Linear Models via Coordinate Descent.'' \emph{Journal of
Statistical Software}, \emph{33}(1), 1-22. doi:10.18637/jss.v033.i01
\url{https://doi.org/10.18637/jss.v033.i01},
\url{https://www.jstatsoft.org/v33/i01/}.

Robin X, Turck N, Hainard A, Tiberti N, Lisacek F, Sanchez J, MÃ¼ller M
(2011). ``pROC: an open-source package for R and S+ to analyze and
compare ROC curves.'' \emph{BMC Bioinformatics}, \emph{12}, 77.

Kuhn M (2022). \emph{caret: Classification and Regression Training}. R
package version 6.0-92, \url{https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=caret}.

Venables WN, Ripley BD (2002). \emph{Modern Applied Statistics with S},
Fourth edition. Springer, New York. ISBN 0-387-95457-0,
\url{https://www.stats.ox.ac.uk/pub/MASS4/}.

Stevenson M, Nunes ESwcfT, Heuer C, Marshall J, Sanchez J, Thornton R,
Reiczigel J, Robison-Cox J, Sebastiani P, Solymos P, Yoshida K, Jones G,
Pirikahu S, Firestone S, Kyle R, Popp J, Jay M, Reynard C, Cheung A,
Singanallur N, Szabo A, Rabiee. A (2022). \emph{epiR: Tools for the
Analysis of Epidemiological Data}. R package version 2.0.46,
\url{https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=epiR}.

Ripley B (2021). \emph{tree: Classification and Regression Trees}. R
package version 1.0-41, \url{https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=tree}.

Therneau T, Atkinson B (2022). \emph{rpart: Recursive Partitioning and
Regression Trees}. R package version 4.1.16,
\url{https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=rpart}.

\bibliography{mybibfile.bib}


\end{document}
